title: Static Site Generation with Pelican
date: 2025-08-28 00:00
slug: static-site-generation-with-pelican

Every once in a while I feel like experimenting with standard website bits. You
know, the classics, html / css / javascript. Not often enough though and if the
topic comes up I usually disclose that while I *can* make a website, you
probably don't want *me* to make your website. Still, here I am again, looking
for shortcuts to make things a little more fun or bit easier.

So now we come to static site generation with [Pelican](https://getpelican.com).
The premise is that given content written in something simple like Markdown and
a template, you can generate an entirely static website. Beyond the Jinja2
templating, there isn't any programming involved after setting things up (and
it's arguable if Jinja counts as programming at all).

Documentation for Pelican is good with a little ambiguity here and there but
nothing that isn't cleared up with some experimentation. I can't think of
anything to add except that I'm enjoying writing Markdown in Neovim instead of
HTML or logging into a CMS like Wordpress (or, rather, mucking about with
Wordpress configs, templates or the database as one does instead of, you know,
actually writing anything).

I incorporated [Skeleton](https://getskeleton.com) -- a bare-bones, mobile-first,
grid-based, boilerplate web framework -- into a custom Pelican theme. The whole
process of creating a template was very easy but I did have prior experience
with Jinja.

You could almost say everything was refreshingly boring. Maybe we can change
that with GitHub's Actions to dynamically compile & deploy the site when
updates are committed to my repository in the near future.
